adding term_vector mapping parameter docs (#9579)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/mapping-parameters/term-vector.md

---
layout: default
title: Term vector
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 190
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Term vector

The `term_vector` mapping parameter controls whether term-level information is stored for individual text fields during indexing. This information includes details such as term frequency, position, and character offsets, which can be used for advanced features like custom scoring and highlighting.

> By default, `term_vector` is disabled. When enabled, term vectors are stored and can be retrieved using the `_termvectors` API.

Reviewer: Can we highlight that this API retrieves the term vectors for a particular document?

Reviewer: Got it. Please ensure to link to the new documentation here.

- `"no"` (default): Term vectors are not stored.
- `"yes"`: Store term frequencies and basic positions.
- `"with_positions"`: Store term positions.
- `"with_offsets"`: Store character offsets.
- `"with_positions_offsets"`: Store both positions and offsets.
- `"with_positions_payloads"`: Store positions and payloads (if payloads are indexed).
- `"with_positions_offsets_payloads"`: Store all term vector data.

## Enabling term_vector on a field

The following request creates an index named `articles` with the `content` field configured to store term vectors including positions and offsets:

```json
PUT /articles
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "content": {
        "type": "text",
        "term_vector": "with_positions_offsets"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Indexing a document

Use the following command to index a sample document:

```json
PUT /articles/_doc/1
{
  "content": "OpenSearch is an open-source search and analytics suite."
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Retrieving term vectors

Use the following command to retrieve term-level statistics using the `_termvectors` API:

```json
POST /articles/_termvectors/1
{

>   "fields": ["content"],

Reviewer: Is there already a document which contains information around the possible request parameters which can be passed here?

Author: No document yet, I will be working on the API next

            {
              "position": 3,
              "start_offset": 17,
              "end_offset": 21
            }
          ]
        },
        "opensearch": {
          "doc_freq": 1,
          "ttf": 1,
          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 0,
              "start_offset": 0,
              "end_offset": 10
            }
          ]
        },
        "search": {
          "doc_freq": 1,
          "ttf": 1,
          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 5,
              "start_offset": 29,
              "end_offset": 35
            }
          ]
        },
        "source": {
          "doc_freq": 1,
          "ttf": 1,
          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 4,
              "start_offset": 22,
              "end_offset": 28
            }
          ]
        },
        "suite": {
          "doc_freq": 1,
          "ttf": 1,
          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 8,
              "start_offset": 50,
              "end_offset": 55
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

> ```

Author: Good point, will add now

---
layout: default
title: Term vector
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 190
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Term vector

The `term_vector` mapping parameter controls whether term-level information is stored for individual text fields during indexing. This information includes details such as term frequency, position, and character offsets, which can be used for advanced features like custom scoring and highlighting.

By default, `term_vector` is disabled. When enabled, term vectors are stored and can be retrieved using the `_termvectors` API.

> Enabling `term_vector` increases index size. Use only when you need detailed term-level data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enabling `term_vector` increases index size. Only use it when you need detailed term-level data.
```

{: .important}

## Configuration options

The `term_vector` parameter supports the following valid values:

- `no` (default): Term vectors are not stored.

> - `yes`: Store term frequencies (The number of times a term appears in the specific document) and basic positions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `yes`: Store term frequencies (the number of times a term appears in the specific document) and basic positions.
```

- `with_positions`: Store term positions. The order in which the term appears in the field.

> - `with_offsets`: Store character offsets. The exact start and end character positions of the term within the field text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `with_offsets`: Store character offsets. The exact starting and ending character positions of the term within the field text.
```

- `with_positions_offsets`: Store both positions and offsets.

> - `with_positions_payloads`: Store term positions along with payloads, which are optional pieces of custom metadata (such as tags or numeric values) that can be attached to individual terms during indexing. Payloads are used in advanced scenarios like custom scoring or tagging but require special analyzers to be set up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `with_positions_payloads`: Store term positions along with payloads, which are optional pieces of custom metadata (such as tags or numeric values) that can be attached to individual terms during indexing. Payloads are used in advanced scenarios like custom scoring or tagging but require special analyzers in order to be set up.
```

          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 5,
              "start_offset": 29,
              "end_offset": 35
            }
          ]
        },
        "source": {
          "doc_freq": 1,
          "ttf": 1,
          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 4,
              "start_offset": 22,
              "end_offset": 28
            }
          ]
        },
        "suite": {
          "doc_freq": 1,
          "ttf": 1,
          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 8,
              "start_offset": 50,
              "end_offset": 55
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Highlighting with term vectors

Use the following command to search for the term "analytics" and [highlight]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/searching-data/highlight/) it using the field's stored term vectors:

```json
POST /articles/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "content": "analytics"
    }
  },
  "highlight": {
    "fields": {
      "content": {
        "type": "fvh"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The following response shows a matched document where the term "analytics" was found in the `content` field. The `highlight` section includes the matched term wrapped in `<em>` tags, using the field’s stored term vectors for efficient and accurate highlighting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following response shows a matched document in which the term "analytics" was found in the `content` field. The `highlight` section includes the matched term wrapped in `<em>` tags, using the field's stored term vectors for efficient and accurate highlighting:
```

---
layout: default
title: Term vector
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 190
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Term vector

The `term_vector` mapping parameter controls whether term-level information is stored for individual text fields during indexing. This information includes details such as term frequency, position, and character offsets, which can be used for advanced features like custom scoring and highlighting.

By default, `term_vector` is disabled. When enabled, term vectors are stored and can be retrieved using the `_termvectors` API.

Enabling `term_vector` increases index size. Use only when you need detailed term-level data.
{: .important}

## Configuration options

> Available configuration options for `term_vector` are the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `term_vector` parameter supports the following valid values:
```

- `"no"` (default): Term vectors are not stored.
- `"yes"`: Store term frequencies and basic positions.
- `"with_positions"`: Store term positions.

> - `"with_offsets"`: Store character offsets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `with_offsets`: Store character offsets.
```

Reviewer 3: Should we describe what offsets are?

> - `"with_positions_offsets"`: Store both positions and offsets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `with_positions_offsets`: Store both positions and offsets.
```

> - `"with_positions_payloads"`: Store positions and payloads (if payloads are indexed).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `with_positions_payloads`: Store positions and payloads (if payloads are indexed).
```

> - `"with_positions_offsets_payloads"`: Store all term vector data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `with_positions_offsets_payloads`: Store all term vector data.
```

## Enabling term_vector on a field

> The following request creates an index named `articles` with the `content` field configured to store term vectors including positions and offsets:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following request creates an index named `articles` with the `content` field configured to store term vectors, including positions and offsets:
```

```json
PUT /articles
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "content": {
        "type": "text",
        "term_vector": "with_positions_offsets"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Indexing a document

> Use the following command to index a sample document:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Index a sample document:
```

```json
PUT /articles/_doc/1
{
  "content": "OpenSearch is an open-source search and analytics suite."
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ## Retrieving term vectors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> Use the following command to retrieve term-level statistics using the `_termvectors` API:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Retrieve term-level statistics using the `_termvectors` API:
```

```json
POST /articles/_termvectors/1
{
  "fields": ["content"],
  "term_statistics": true,
  "positions": true,
  "offsets": true
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Expected result:

Reviewer 3: Could you provide a more descriptive intro sentence?

              "start_offset": 17,
              "end_offset": 21
            }
          ]
        },
        "opensearch": {
          "doc_freq": 1,
          "ttf": 1,
          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 0,
              "start_offset": 0,
              "end_offset": 10
            }
          ]
        },
        "search": {
          "doc_freq": 1,
          "ttf": 1,
          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 5,
              "start_offset": 29,
              "end_offset": 35
            }
          ]
        },
        "source": {
          "doc_freq": 1,
          "ttf": 1,
          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 4,
              "start_offset": 22,
              "end_offset": 28
            }
          ]
        },
        "suite": {
          "doc_freq": 1,
          "ttf": 1,
          "term_freq": 1,
          "tokens": [
            {
              "position": 8,
              "start_offset": 50,
              "end_offset": 55
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Highlighting with term vectors

> Use the following command to search for the term "analytics" and highlight it using the field's stored term vectors:

Reviewer 3: Please link to the highlighting documentation for more info. https://docs.opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/searching-data/highlight/

```json
POST /articles/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "content": "analytics"
    }
  },
  "highlight": {
    "fields": {
      "content": {
        "type": "fvh"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Expected result:

Reviewer 3: Could you provide a more descriptive intro sentence?
